Let's talk about a very important topic.
If you want to be a great programmer and that is called debugging you see nobody writes perfect programs.
It's honestly impossible.
We're always going to make mistakes and programs are constantly being improved.
We constantly improve our code as we find more and more mistakes because programs are full of errors
or what we call bugs or exceptions at runtime when the code is running.
You see the act of finding and removing these bugs or errors from our code is called debugging and a
big chunk of our time as programmers is debugging code whether it's our own code or other people's code
and figuring out Hey how come this doesn't work.
And the senior developers are really really good at debugging so let's talk about in this video about
some of my recommendations for debugging and what some good practices are.
Now keep in mind that you get better at debugging code as you code more and more so the best thing you
can do is to just keep practicing keep writing Python code.
So what are some of my tips.
Well first you definitely want to use some lending.
And what is limiting what we've talked about is right when we set up our developer environment limiting
allows us to detect as we code some issues with our code.
For example if I do num plus four here and I get a read underline I see here that the PI flakes Lintner
notices before I even run my code that hate.
There's an undefined named num.
So linking allows us to find these errors before we even run our code and we saw that we can use I.D.
like Pi charm that has linking already built in or use a sublime text or visual studio code and install
packages and extensions like Pi lent to actually have lending in our code.
That is a really really important tool.
Next I recommend always using some sort of an idea or editor.
Because these editors and ideas especially the ones that are specific for python like pie chart have
all these built in tools for us to use such as auto formatting based on pep 8.
Remember these style official style guide that the Python community has.
It allows us to detect errors in our code with let's say highlighting and formatting of our code so
it becomes easy for us to detect any errors before we even run the code.
Finally you want to be able to learn to read errors and this is something that I tried to practice with
you.
As we've learned Python for example if I do four plus let's say gibberish here and I click Run right
away I see Hey on line six there's an error in my main dot pi file there's a type error and I see here
that I'm trying to add int and a string so we're able to read errors and understand what they mean maybe
I do something like this if I click Run I get a syntax error and a syntax error I know means that hate
Python interpreter is trying to read my code but what you just wrote is not python.
I have no idea what you're doing here.
I see that it's end of line while scanning string literal.
So I'm trying to read this string and all of a sudden the program ends like you're supposed to end the
string.
Remember so being able to read these errors is really really important.
And we've discussed some of them in this course.
Some of the most common ones like syntax error where you're just writing something that Python interpreter
doesn't understand.
We have something like name error right where we use a variable that doesn't exist so Python doesn't
understand.
Hey I have no idea what name is what's what's the value of name.
We have things like type error.
That is when we mismatch data type and do let's say a string plus for we have things like value air
we have things like here where we're trying to access a key that doesn't exist or attribute error where
we're trying to access the method of a object and that method doesn't exist.
Now these errors are something that we've been seeing throughout the course and we're going to see a
few more.
I would say that there's about 15 to 20 errors that are really really common that show up 90 percent
of the time.
And if you remember you can always go to the Python documentation to learn about them.
But this just comes with practice.
If you see an error that you've never seen before I recommend going to the documentation and reading
up on it.
Once you see it usually tend to remember when it comes up next but let me show you my favorite way to
debug code and it's called P D B or Python debugger and PDB is a built in module in Python right here
again.
Remember our built in module are part of the standard library that Python comes with and PDB is the
python debugger for interactive interpreters and you can read about it here.
But let me show you what it does see PDB is extremely useful because it allows us to interact with the
code so previously when we had a function let's say we have function ad and we have num one num two.
And then this function simply returns num one plus num to now before if we wanted to let's say debug
this code and let's say we're adding four plus some gibberish and it's giving us an error the first
step that I would take is most likely adding a print in here so I could say print Hey what's what's
going on let me see number one and number two and what it's giving and print is a really really quick
way an easy way to debug your code.
I use that all the time but PDB gives us a little extra boost so we can use it like this.
We simply import PDB and instead of using something like a print function we can simply say let me add
a space in here.
We can simply say PDB for Python debugger and then say set trace and set trace I would say is the most
useful method that we have on this PDB object that we import it.
You see when I run set method
it now gives me an interactive Python debugger that I can now type commands in here and actually test
on my code.
And here's the interesting part right now in this PDB I'm right inside of line eight.
So my code tried to run but then it paused.
As soon as it said PDB said trace and now I'm in this world and I can test out what's going on so I
can actually say hey number one what is it.
Well number one is four.
What about num 2.
Well num 2 is a string and I can be like oh I'm trying to add a string and an end to this this doesn't
work.
So I can detect errors this way as well.
Now this PDB interactive actually has a ton of useful things.
So if I type and help here you see that I have commands that I can use in the PDB.
So I have a ton here.
I have access to which I'm assuming is going to excite me out of this PDB Python debugger but I also
have things like let's say list.
Let's see what list does.
So when I type in list here and right now the Web site is really not showing me too much but hopefully
can still see list and I get some sort of an output.
I see that I get a list of my code and.
OK but let's say I don't know exactly what list does.
Well PDB allows us to type help and then list and when we do that it actually gives us the documentation
just like we have here if we go to a let's say list
let's see list list list list right here.
It gives me the documentation right in here.
So it says list source for the current file.
All right.
So it just lists the source code that we wrote.
OK let's go.
What else is there.
Well we also have something like step or S for short and step is really really cool let's actually use
clear to bring this up to the top so I'm going to say clear so that it clears all breaks let's do let's
make this a little bit bigger so you can see.
There you go.
That's better.
Right so now I can actually do something like step and step is going to allow us to go to the next line.
So again if we make this a little bit bigger step is going to say hey go to line nine.
So let's see what happens.
I'm going to type in step and I got step twice so let's try step and look at that.
I go to the next line in my code and it gets me a you get a typo error the error that we got.
So let's add another line here.
Let's say that we're trying to add four plus five here or four.
Multiply by five and assigning assign it to a T variable if I stop this and run this again I'm now inside.
Over here if I type in t I get a name the t is not defined because while I'm inside the code here on
line eight.
But we have a red line nine yet.
So let's do step.
And now I'm on the next side so if I do t now I get Hey T equals 20.
Awesome.
So step I can step through the code which is really really useful.
I also have things like continue which lets me continue through the code until I return something.
And I continue and exit out of PDP and look at that.
I get the air let's run this again another useful command is a and a actually gives me all the arguments
of the current function that we're in.
So look at that.
I get all the arguments.
Which again is really useful.
There's also the command w which shows me the context of the current line.
It is executing so you can see here where we are we're in the add function we called it with these arguments
and we're now about to run this line.
And then finally as we're debugging this all right I think I finally see that we have an error we should
have given it a number so I can now just exit out of here and simply fix this to five.
So now I can just remove my PDB and everything should be working fine with my code awesome.
So PDB is awesome to step through your code and debug and try different things.
It does require a bit of practice but after a day of just playing around with PDB you will become really
really good at debugging.
So after this video I recommend that you write PDB and hopefully you have a large enough python file
they can just step over and experiment with different commands using help using list to see what you
have available to you actually want to show you one last thing.
So let's say we go back to our code our PDB said trace I click Run could I do something like this where
I noticed that I Taipei and I have.
All right my code is working but could I change numb to two now equal some gibberish.
Well let's see if I do next now let's do next to run this final line.
I get an error.
So I'm also able to change variables in here and write Python code to perhaps test out my functions.
This is now working I can test out hey what happens if we change this variable to another value again.
Very very useful.